README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/okfn/ckanext-sweden.png)](https://travis-ci.org/okfn/ckanext-sweden) [![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/okfn/ckanext-sweden/badge.png)](https://coveralls.io/r/okfn/ckanext-sweden)

ckanext-sweden
==============

CKAN extension for Öppnadata.se, the Swedish data management platform.


Blog Plugin
-----------

To enable, activate your CKAN virtual environment and then:

1. Add `sweden_blog` to `ckan.plugins`.

2. Install the blog plugin's requirements:

        pip install -r ckanext/sweden/blog/requirements.txt

3. Run the paster command to initialize the blog's database tables:

        paster --plugin=ckan sweden_blog_init -c /etc/ckan/default/development.ini

4. Restart CKAN.


DCAT Harvesting
---------------

To enable, activate your CKAN virtual environment and then:

1. Install Redis, gcc and libffi-dev:

        sudo apt-get install redis-server build-essential libffi-dev

2. Install `sweden_dcat_rdf_harvester` requirements

        pip install -r ckanext/sweden/dcat/requirements.txt

3. Install `ckanext-harvest`:

        git clone https://github.com/ckan/ckanext-harvest
        cd ckanext-harvest
        git checkout stable
        pip install -r pip-requirements.txt
        python setup.py develop

4. Install `ckanext-dcat`:

        git clone https://github.com/ckan/ckanext-dcat
        cd ckanext-dcat
        pip install -r requirements.txt
        # tmp
        pip install lxml
        python setup.py develop

5. Add `dcat_rdf_harvester sweden_dcat_rdf_harvester harvest` to `ckan.plugins`
   ensuring `harvest` is listed after `sweden_dcat_rdf_harvester`

6. Restart CKAN.

You should see the harvest pages at `/harvest` and `Generic DCAT RDF Harvester`
listed as a type on `/harvest/new`.

### Configuration options

The following configuration options can be used with regards to the validation
of remote DCAT documents:

* `ckanext.sweden.harvest.use_validation` (default: `True`): Whether to use validation at all
* `ckanext.sweden.harvest.validation_service` (default: `http://validator.dcat-editor.com/service`): The
   URL of the validation service to use. The harvester will POST the contents of the remote DCAT file
   to this endpoint.
* `ckanext.sweden.harvest.stop_on_validation_errors` (default `False`): Whether to stop the datasets import
   if validation errors were found.


Theme
-----

To enable the theme:

1. Add `sweden_theme` to `ckan.plugins`

To modify the theme of the ckanext-sweden theme you'll need to:

1. Install [Node](http://nodejs.org/) (`apt-get install node`) and
   [Bower](http://bower.io/) (`npm install -g bower`)

2. Install the front end dependancies:
        cd ./ckanext/sweden/theme/ && npm i && bower update

3. Re-compile assets: `gulp` (`gulp watch` will regenerate them on the whenever
   a change happens.)

4. Once you've made your changes make sure you commit the changes in
   `./ckanext/theme/resources`


Sweden Plugin and Eurovoc categories
------------------------------------

To enable Eurovoc categories:

1. Install [ckanext-eurovoc](https://github.com/ckan/ckanext-eurovoc)::

    pip install ckanext-eurovoc

2. Enable the Eurovoc and Sweden plugins by adding `eurovoc` and `sweden` to
   `ckan.plugins`.


Custom API endpoints
--------------------

### DCAT related API Endpoints

The `sweden` plugin adds the following API endpoints:

* `dcat_organization_list`: returns a list of all organizations that have DCAT
    harvesting set up. Returns a list of objects, one per organization, each of them
    with the following keys:

      - `id`: CKAN organization id
      - `url`: Organization website (unique across organizations)
      - `dcat_metadata_url`: DCAT output for the organization datasets (generated by CKAN)
      - `original_dcat_metadata_url`: The remote DCAT datasets that were harvested into Oppnadata.se
      - `dcat_validation`: Boolean showing whether the DCAT validation passed or not
      - `dcat_validation_date`: Date and time in which the DCAT validation last took place
      - `dcat_validation_url`: URL to the DCAT validation results

* `dcat_validation`: returns the validation output for the last harvest job of
     the organization harvest source. Requires an `id` parameter with the
     organization name or id.

* `dcat_organization_job_list`: Returns a list of harvest jobs for the given organization.

      - `id`: CKAN organization id or name
      - `status`: Filter jobs by status(New, Running, Finished)

    Usage:

      GET http://127.0.0.1:5000/api/3/action/dcat_organization_job_list?id=haninge-kommun&status=Finished

      Result:

            {
              "help": "http://127.0.0.1:5000/api/3/action/help_show?name=dcat_organization_job_list",
              "success": true,
              "result": [{
                "id": "c7f45a5e-459d-4226-bdbf-89cf40a8896f",
                "created": "2016-06-14 12:48:26.946219",
                "gather_started": "2016-06-14 12:48:28.408297",
                "gather_finished": "2016-06-14 12:48:30.709579",
                "finished": "2016-06-14 12:48:34.248561",
                "source_id": "8c8eeed3-1bcd-4975-856c-a285004a0072",
                "status": "Finished",
                "stats": {
                  "deleted": 0,
                  "updated": 3,
                  "added": 0,
                  "not modified": 0,
                  "errored": 13
                }
              },...]
            }



* `dcat_job_details`: Returns a list of HarvestGatherError objects and HarvestObjectError objects for a given job.

      - `id`: Job id

    Usage:

      GET http://127.0.0.1:5000/api/3/action/dcat_job_details?id=90971e97-1f46-433b-bc43-5b2d0839e23c

      Result:

              {
                "help": "http://127.0.0.1:5000/api/3/action/help_show?name=dcat_job_details",
                "success": true,
                "result": {
                  "gather_errors": [{
                    "message": "{\"errors\": [], \"type\": \"http://www.w3.org/ns/dcat#Distribution\", \"uri\": \"https://haninge.entryscape.net/store/7/resource/33\", \"template\": \"dcat:Distribution\", \"warnings\": [{\"path\": \"dcterms:format\", \"code\": \"few\"}, {\"path\": \"dcterms:license\", \"code\": \"few\"}, {\"path\": \"dcterms:license\", \"code\": \"few\"}]}"
                  },...]

                  "object_errors": {
                    "9a9bf7de-5d4e-4566-b976-f61a96df8461": {
                      "guid": "https://haninge.entryscape.net/store/7/resource/2",
                      "errors": [{
                        "message": "Create validation Error: {'Owner org': 'A organization must be supplied', 'Id': 'Missing value', 'Name': 'Missing value'}",
                        "type": "Import",
                        "line": null
                      }],
                      "original_url": "https://haninge.entryscape.net/store/7/metadata/dcat?recursive=dcat"
                    },...
                  }
              }


### Dataset Stats API Endpoints

The `sweden_theme` extension adds a number of additional API endpoints to
retrieve data about datasets in the site.

* `total_datasets_by_week`: the cumulative total number of datasets by week.
* `weekly_dataset_activity`: the number of updates to datasets per week.
* `weekly_dataset_activity_new`: the number of new datasets per week.

e.g.:

    curl http://127.0.0.1:5000/api/3/action/weekly_dataset_activity -H "Authorization:<your-api-key>"


Hide 'Groups'
-------------

Groups aren't used and can be hidden with the [ckanext-
hidegroups](https://github.com/okfn/ckanext-hidegroups) extension::

    pip install -e 'git+git://github.com/okfn/ckanext-hidegroups.git#egg=ckanext-hidegroups'

Then add ``hidegroups`` to ``ckan.plugins``.


Script for automated organizations creation
-------------------------------------------

The extension includes a standalone script to automate the creation of organizations on
the portal. For details, check the `scripts` folder.


Tests
-----

To run the tests, first install the dev requirements (and Redis, see above):

    pip install -r dev-requirements.txt

Then do:

    nosetests --nologcapture --ckan --with-pylons=test.ini

To run the tests with coverage, first install coverage (`pip install coverage`)
then do:

    nosetests --nologcapture --ckan --with-pylons=test.ini --with-coverage --cover-package=ckanext.sweden --cover-inclusive --cover-erase --cover-tests

Commit message:

Update README.md rename eurovoc to ap11theme

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/okfn/ckanext-sweden.png)](https://travis-ci.org/okfn/ckanext-sweden) [![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/okfn/ckanext-sweden/badge.png)](https://coveralls.io/r/okfn/ckanext-sweden)

ckanext-sweden
==============

CKAN extension for Öppnadata.se, the Swedish data management platform.


Blog Plugin
-----------

To enable, activate your CKAN virtual environment and then:

1. Add `sweden_blog` to `ckan.plugins`.

2. Install the blog plugin's requirements:

        pip install -r ckanext/sweden/blog/requirements.txt

3. Run the paster command to initialize the blog's database tables:

        paster --plugin=ckan sweden_blog_init -c /etc/ckan/default/development.ini

4. Restart CKAN.


DCAT Harvesting
---------------

To enable, activate your CKAN virtual environment and then:

1. Install Redis, gcc and libffi-dev:

        sudo apt-get install redis-server build-essential libffi-dev

2. Install `sweden_dcat_rdf_harvester` requirements

        pip install -r ckanext/sweden/dcat/requirements.txt

3. Install `ckanext-harvest`:

        git clone https://github.com/ckan/ckanext-harvest
        cd ckanext-harvest
        git checkout stable
        pip install -r pip-requirements.txt
        python setup.py develop

4. Install `ckanext-dcat`:

        git clone https://github.com/ckan/ckanext-dcat
        cd ckanext-dcat
        pip install -r requirements.txt
        # tmp
        pip install lxml
        python setup.py develop

5. Add `dcat_rdf_harvester sweden_dcat_rdf_harvester harvest` to `ckan.plugins`
   ensuring `harvest` is listed after `sweden_dcat_rdf_harvester`

6. Restart CKAN.

You should see the harvest pages at `/harvest` and `Generic DCAT RDF Harvester`
listed as a type on `/harvest/new`.

### Configuration options

The following configuration options can be used with regards to the validation
of remote DCAT documents:

* `ckanext.sweden.harvest.use_validation` (default: `True`): Whether to use validation at all
* `ckanext.sweden.harvest.validation_service` (default: `http://validator.dcat-editor.com/service`): The
   URL of the validation service to use. The harvester will POST the contents of the remote DCAT file
   to this endpoint.
* `ckanext.sweden.harvest.stop_on_validation_errors` (default `False`): Whether to stop the datasets import
   if validation errors were found.


Theme
-----

To enable the theme:

1. Add `sweden_theme` to `ckan.plugins`

To modify the theme of the ckanext-sweden theme you'll need to:

1. Install [Node](http://nodejs.org/) (`apt-get install node`) and
   [Bower](http://bower.io/) (`npm install -g bower`)

2. Install the front end dependancies:
        cd ./ckanext/sweden/theme/ && npm i && bower update

3. Re-compile assets: `gulp` (`gulp watch` will regenerate them on the whenever
   a change happens.)

4. Once you've made your changes make sure you commit the changes in
   `./ckanext/theme/resources`


Sweden Plugin and DCAT AP 1.1 theme categories
------------------------------------

To enable DCAT AP 1.1 theme categories:

1. Install [ckanext-ap11theme](https://github.com/keitaroinc/ckanext-ap11theme)::

    pip install ckanext-ap11theme

2. Enable the DCAT AP 1.1 theme and Sweden plugins by adding `ap11theme` and `sweden` to
   `ckan.plugins`.


Custom API endpoints
--------------------

### DCAT related API Endpoints

The `sweden` plugin adds the following API endpoints:

* `dcat_organization_list`: returns a list of all organizations that have DCAT
    harvesting set up. Returns a list of objects, one per organization, each of them
    with the following keys:

      - `id`: CKAN organization id
      - `url`: Organization website (unique across organizations)
      - `dcat_metadata_url`: DCAT output for the organization datasets (generated by CKAN)
      - `original_dcat_metadata_url`: The remote DCAT datasets that were harvested into Oppnadata.se
      - `dcat_validation`: Boolean showing whether the DCAT validation passed or not
      - `dcat_validation_date`: Date and time in which the DCAT validation last took place
      - `dcat_validation_url`: URL to the DCAT validation results

* `dcat_validation`: returns the validation output for the last harvest job of
     the organization harvest source. Requires an `id` parameter with the
     organization name or id.

* `dcat_organization_job_list`: Returns a list of harvest jobs for the given organization.

      - `id`: CKAN organization id or name
      - `status`: Filter jobs by status(New, Running, Finished)

    Usage:

      GET http://127.0.0.1:5000/api/3/action/dcat_organization_job_list?id=haninge-kommun&status=Finished

      Result:

            {
              "help": "http://127.0.0.1:5000/api/3/action/help_show?name=dcat_organization_job_list",
              "success": true,
              "result": [{
                "id": "c7f45a5e-459d-4226-bdbf-89cf40a8896f",
                "created": "2016-06-14 12:48:26.946219",
                "gather_started": "2016-06-14 12:48:28.408297",
                "gather_finished": "2016-06-14 12:48:30.709579",
                "finished": "2016-06-14 12:48:34.248561",
                "source_id": "8c8eeed3-1bcd-4975-856c-a285004a0072",
                "status": "Finished",
                "stats": {
                  "deleted": 0,
                  "updated": 3,
                  "added": 0,
                  "not modified": 0,
                  "errored": 13
                }
              },...]
            }



* `dcat_job_details`: Returns a list of HarvestGatherError objects and HarvestObjectError objects for a given job.

      - `id`: Job id

    Usage:

      GET http://127.0.0.1:5000/api/3/action/dcat_job_details?id=90971e97-1f46-433b-bc43-5b2d0839e23c

      Result:

              {
                "help": "http://127.0.0.1:5000/api/3/action/help_show?name=dcat_job_details",
                "success": true,
                "result": {
                  "gather_errors": [{
                    "message": "{\"errors\": [], \"type\": \"http://www.w3.org/ns/dcat#Distribution\", \"uri\": \"https://haninge.entryscape.net/store/7/resource/33\", \"template\": \"dcat:Distribution\", \"warnings\": [{\"path\": \"dcterms:format\", \"code\": \"few\"}, {\"path\": \"dcterms:license\", \"code\": \"few\"}, {\"path\": \"dcterms:license\", \"code\": \"few\"}]}"
                  },...]

                  "object_errors": {
                    "9a9bf7de-5d4e-4566-b976-f61a96df8461": {
                      "guid": "https://haninge.entryscape.net/store/7/resource/2",
                      "errors": [{
                        "message": "Create validation Error: {'Owner org': 'A organization must be supplied', 'Id': 'Missing value', 'Name': 'Missing value'}",
                        "type": "Import",
                        "line": null
                      }],
                      "original_url": "https://haninge.entryscape.net/store/7/metadata/dcat?recursive=dcat"
                    },...
                  }
              }


### Dataset Stats API Endpoints

The `sweden_theme` extension adds a number of additional API endpoints to
retrieve data about datasets in the site.

* `total_datasets_by_week`: the cumulative total number of datasets by week.
* `weekly_dataset_activity`: the number of updates to datasets per week.
* `weekly_dataset_activity_new`: the number of new datasets per week.

e.g.:

    curl http://127.0.0.1:5000/api/3/action/weekly_dataset_activity -H "Authorization:<your-api-key>"


Hide 'Groups'
-------------

Groups aren't used and can be hidden with the [ckanext-
hidegroups](https://github.com/okfn/ckanext-hidegroups) extension::

    pip install -e 'git+git://github.com/okfn/ckanext-hidegroups.git#egg=ckanext-hidegroups'

Then add ``hidegroups`` to ``ckan.plugins``.


Script for automated organizations creation
-------------------------------------------

The extension includes a standalone script to automate the creation of organizations on
the portal. For details, check the `scripts` folder.


Tests
-----

To run the tests, first install the dev requirements (and Redis, see above):

    pip install -r dev-requirements.txt

Then do:

    nosetests --nologcapture --ckan --with-pylons=test.ini

To run the tests with coverage, first install coverage (`pip install coverage`)
then do:

    nosetests --nologcapture --ckan --with-pylons=test.ini --with-coverage --cover-package=ckanext.sweden --cover-inclusive --cover-erase --cover-tests
